It fears not policy that heretic,
To put the finger in the eye and weep
    To pay him tribute and submit thyself,
I do believe
  MESSENGER. The sum of all I can, I have disclos'd.
    And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
    have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis wonderful.
    And hell too strong for me to buckle with.
           Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
Long after fearing to creep forth again:            1036
 [_She dies._]
  me, yet in other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is
    Had we no other quarrel else to Rome but that
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
Up in my heart, which I have given already,
Had ever scar for. [_To the guard._] Let his arms alone;
    From seventeen years till now almost four-score
    Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
  COMINIUS. Our spoils he kick'd at,
For riches strew’d herself even in the streets;
                       his BRETHREN
The heavenly moisture, that sweet coral mouth,
I am sorry to hear this.
Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
    This sensible warm motion to become
    The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
    As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
To God, his sovereign, and to him disloyal,
  ARTHUR. Is there no remedy?
    Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
  PANTHINO. Will thou go?
    Able to ravish any dull conceit;
  BEROWNE. This, fellow. What wouldst?
Call it not patience, Gaunt; it is despair.
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him.
Have wak’d their sleepers, op’d, and let ’em forth
    Bestow your counsels on me; she now begs
    As he in penance wander'd through the forest;
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not say he lies?
[Exit.]
Lack blood to think on’t—and flush youth revolt.
    Believe me, she has had much wrong. Lord Cardinal,
  LORD BARDOLPH. Who keeps the gate here, ho?
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
To see now how a jest shall come about.
Thou hast her, France: let her be thine; for we
man, and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY, QUEEN MARGARET, the PRINCE OF WALES,
    therefore, I beseech you, let him be countenanc'd.
Which he confesseth to be manifold,
Mark the poor wretch, to overshoot his troubles      680
  BASTARD. Philip, my liege, so is my name begun:
That e’er I put between your holy looks
Each object with a joy; the counterchange
As thou art to thyself:
    Horace says in his- What, my soul, verses?
Enter, sir, the castle.
To see some mischief on him. O!
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing.
Doth half that glory to the sober west
That which my daughter came to look upon,
Infects the sound pine, and diverts his grain
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
    Thou art too noble to conserve a life
Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
another.
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. Certainly
have me as a beast; not that I being a beast she would have me, but
    Rather than render back, out with your knives
Stand you auspicious!
    You moonshine revellers, and shades of night,
    That's curdied by the frost from purest snow,
    This do thou for my love; and so let him,
  DUCHESS. I am their father's mother; I will see them.
Though heaven cannot. O Romeo, Romeo.
  AARON. Why, so, brave lords! When we join in league
  CAMPEIUS. Your rage mistakes us.
  TIMON. Women nearest; but men, men are the things themselves. What
    And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
with excellent discipline. There is an anchient lieutenant there at the
And chid his truant youth with such a grace,
For the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the meat, sir, it shall
We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
I will speak lower.
  LUCULLUS. I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt spirit,
    And give him chastisement for this abuse.
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,
egg, and I’ll give thee two crowns.
Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came
    Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,    [Sitting down]
  SLENDER. Ay, that I will come cut and longtail, under the
And blind oblivion swallow’d cities up,
By your leaves, honest friends: pray you, whither goe you?
  Then kings' misdeeds cannot be hid in clay.
And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
  MESSENGER. These were her words, utt'red with mild disdain:
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a great fire, and the
SALERIO, a messenger from Venice
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand. This is the very description
Let liberty make use of; space enough
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
      DON PEDRO.
  TIMON. You'll take it ill.
    And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
Right noble Burgundy,
    I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see-
  FALSTAFF. These fellows will do well. Master Shallow, God keep you!
Into his ruined ears, and thus deliver:
Sometime she gallops o’er a courtier’s nose,
Thou wrong’st it more than tears with that report.
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
With some mischance cross Tarquin in his flight:
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
Th’expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Who dead? Speak, man.
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
For who hates honour hates the gods above.
Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with you. I told him you
forehead.
I pray thee, mark me, that a brother should
Now, if you have a station in the file,
Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks:
[_To an officer_.] Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
    For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
Fulvia is dead.
it to th’ ground, as if ’twere Cain’s jawbone, that did the first
And yet it may be said I loved her dearly,
    Periods his comfort.
    If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
        all Europe.'
  gentleman that have spent much; my name is Brook. FALSTAFF. Good
But, see, thy brother.
    But with a proud majestical high scorn
SECOND CITIZEN.
questions and sing; pick his teeth and sing. I know a man that had this
Of the last monarchy—see that you come
Prithee, Kate, let’s stand aside and see the end of this controversy.
Give him all kindness. I had rather have
  SEMPRONIUS
  QUEEN MARGARET. Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
  GLOUCESTER. Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
She had; and would incense me
_O Seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!_
A headless man? The garments of Posthumus?
    Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
  MRS. FORD. Heaven be my witness, you do, if you suspect
Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
Sometime she driveth o’er a soldier’s neck,
Take 20., Domine; how does my sweet heart?
     Though the rain it raineth every day.
  SATURNINUS. And you have rung it lustily, my lords-
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
Might have been mine! only I have left to say,
I quickly were dissolved from my hive
Your money!
    The poor deer's blood that my heart means no ill.
 Enter Gentleman.
Why, why is this?
  HOLOFERNES. Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph on
  But the mild glance that sly Ulysses lent
  FIRST CITIZEN. Yes, that the King is dead.
    Never, O never, do his ghost the wrong
A course of learning and ingenious studies.
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
And in my temper soften’d valour’s steel.
    Had not been here to dress the ugly form
Cannot amount unto a hundred marks;
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
    Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
  BEROWNE. I would you heard it groan.
    To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
  BRUTUS. The aediles, ho!
[_Within._] Let me go in to see the generals,
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
    Charles, it is the stubbornest young fellow of France; full of
  GLOUCESTER. Madam, the King is old enough himself
    Then, feeling what small things are boisterous there,
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
    Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor;
And sets up your fame for ever.
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
Or chivalrous design of knightly trial.
Teaching decrepit age to tread the measures;        1148
Here, all enrag'd, such passion her assails,
And may, through all the world. ’Tis yours, and we,
Th’ affliction of my mind amends, with which,
    To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle
Fire, burn; and cauldron, bubble.
  A person representing HYMEN
  SUFFOLK. O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit
I have done my work ill, friends. O, make an end
    And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
O, woe the day!
  Fortune, that arrant whore,
Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for their mother,
  WARWICK. My Lord of York, I promise you, the King
  ABERGAVENNY. Is it therefore
  PROVOST. As I do think, to-morrow.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Our Lady help my lord! He'll be forsworn.
Dost thou not bring me letters from the Friar?
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
  TALBOT. Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
We had died as they doe, ill old men, unwept,
    'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
    So, were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school.
    Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
Being no more then his.  None here speake for 'em,
find none.
If you do find him, pray you give him this;
  KING. My life itself, and the best heart of it,
    have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never bring them to
In his own course.
With carrion men, groaning for burial.
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
Go to the fellow, good Alexas, bid him
    to see thee here, to see thee there; to see thee pass thy
    Besides, the King's name is a tower of strength,
    I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
chastity, which is not worth a breakfast in the cheapest country under
_Qui vous là?_
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
    be touch'd?
  YORK. O, then, I see you will part but with light gifts:
To lie discolour’d by this place of peace?
    To see their day and them our fortune give.
Suppose him now at anchor. The city strived
When I desir’d him to come home to dinner,
    Which out of daily fortune ever taints
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud,
Express’d in the condition, let the forfeit
    Let him depart before we need his help.
slight and trivial a nature.
blood is their argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it will be
  MENENIUS. I am as thy general is.
no use, or purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight.
Say I am merry; come to me again,
  JULIA.  [Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
  ESCALUS. My lord.
    O, tell me who it is, for ne'er till now
    Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
Alas, poor ghost!
Most heathenish and most gross!
Under your hard construction must I sit;
      of these men’s bills.
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
  Though woe be heavy, yet it seldom sleeps;
    Henceforth we banish thee on pain of death.
I thank you for this profit, and from hence
Of education all the grace,
Hop forty paces through the public street
Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father
Most certain. Let our catch be, “Thou knave.”
Let him be Caesar.
    Will be deceiv'd; for, gentle hearers, know,
 Enter Helena in the dress of a pilgrim.
    I'll give you gold enough.
    Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
By Providence divine.
 [_Leonine runs away._]
  WOLSEY. Yes, surely.
Tis true.
  ARCHBISHOP. What well-appointed leader fronts us here?
And to be boy eternal.
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
With blood of thine already.
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
O gracious lady,
Which love to all, of which thyself art one,
No word like “pardon” for kings’ mouths so meet.
More matter, with less art.
    troth, I do now remember the poor creature, small beer. But
What’s the matter, sweetheart?
    Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge.
We with our travels will endeavour us.
    Herself's a bawd. Let not the virgin's cheek
    Of the King's party
To England will I steal, and there I’ll steal;
    lady thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech, the
The devil take order now! I’ll to the throng.
    Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
If it be that, or any that was hers,
I am fall’n in this offence.
  BOYET. And wherefore not ships?
    Which he shall have. I'll pay the debt, and free him.
put in a Caldron of lead, and Vsurers grease, amongst a whole million
    I am in your debt for your last exercise;
    Where there was no proportion held in love.
Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
    Make the sun dance. Hark you!               [A shout within]
                    40
Of his lowd infamy: for our milke
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
    We will, according to your strengths and qualities,
    The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
      Nothing certainer:
Quarrels consume us, Envy of ill men
    I will not hence till with my talk and tears,
From east, west, north, and south. Be it concluded,
How long is’t now since last yourself and I
Stealing away the treasure of his spring:
    Soldiers, Citizens, Messengers, Servants to Aufidius, and other
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
Go you, Malvolio. If it be a suit from the Count, I am sick, or not at
But thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others,
  BRUTUS. Rais'd only that the weaker sort may wish
You said our work should cease.
    The Duke is ent'ring; therefore, hence, away.         Exeunt
    I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
He plies the Duke at morning and at night,
Why, Paris hath colour enough.
    that are hollow: thy bones are hollow; impiety has made a feast
Never to wash his face, nor cut his hairs:
    That freely rend'red me these news for true.
    And by an eminent body that enforc'd
For every minute is expectancy
Throne’d and set high; servants, who seem no less,
To his owne Nerves and act; Commands men service,
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
    Ipswich and Oxford! One of which fell with him,
    In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
Was foully snatch’d.
Scene III. Another room in the Castle.
Sir, my life is yours;
    O! but I love his lady too too much,
    Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
old and merry be a sin, then many an old host that I know is damn’d: if
    two of the banish'd Duke's pages.
    Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
  And one for int’rest, if thou wilt have twain.
    Shall break into corruption' so went on,
    the simple office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
    cover'd.
      Will it serve for any model to build mischief on? What is he for
METELLUS.
Neighing in likeness of a filly foal;
  And only must be wail'd by Collatine.'
Till our deathes it cannot;
      with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one another
    Some fair excuse.
That leads him to these places. Were I his lady
A league from Epidamnum had we sail’d
    And make a monster of you.
Divert strong minds to the course of alt’ring things:
    That us'd me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
And die in music.
By interception which they dream not of.
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho.
    A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune,
He sings several tunes faster than you’ll tell money. He utters them as
Am I not i’ th’ right, old Jephthah?
Upon our houses’ thatch, whiles a more frosty people
We convent, &c.
    And let these have a day appointed them
    I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
How now, Varrius!
Fled to England!
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Come, sir, your passado.
And in that cold hot-burning fire doth dwell;
  HOST. Hark, hark!
I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
    Near or far off, well won is still well shot;
    you?
  Soft pity enters at an iron gate.
  SIR HUGH EVANS, a Welsh parson
    fighting a days and foining a nights, and begin to patch up thine
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen;
after me. I had talk of you last night; though you are a fool and a
    Lo, by my troth, the instrument is cold
  ALL. Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
  KING RICHARD. But in your daughter's womb I bury them;
    Stood here observing him. Some strange commotion
  MOWBRAY. Is this proceeding just and honourable?
No fisher but the ungrown fry forbears:
And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,
  DUKE. Be they of much import?
Whose precious taste her thirsty lips well knew,
Have with our needles created both one flower,
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Whereto the judgment of my heart is tied?
    staff understands me.
Yes indeed do I, fellow.
As mine own face. If there be cords or knives,
My countryman; but yet I know him not.
This is my treasurer. Let him speak, my lord,
Here at my house, and at my proper cost.
Let’s have some merry ones.
  bid thee still mark me and do as I do? When didst thou see me heave
  FIRST SENATOR. Thou hast painfully discover'd; are his files
    For ever from the world. I had my trial,
My daughter is not for thee; and now in madness,
Exceed account. But the full sum of me
Come not before him.
I understand thy kisses, and thou mine,
  SUFFOLK. Thou dar'st not, for thy own.
A man he is of honesty and trust,
  MICHAEL. Where's our General?
I’ll bring you to him.
It is so too. And have not we affections,
  TIMON. Is't true? Can't be?
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
Now, what news on the Rialto?
    O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
      To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace,
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let’s be brief,
I had been still a happy king of men.
    And now thou wouldst eat thy dead vomit up,
  KING RICHARD. Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
Or, Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
    His honour and myself are at the one,
  MOTH. They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
IAGO, his Ancient
And say what thou seest yond.
my hand, ’tish ill done!
    And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
    By custom of the coronation.
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
    In our well-found successes to report
Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common herd was glad
DAUPHIN.
I know the knight is incensed against you, even to a mortal
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
For thy good valour. Come thee on.
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala.
Here he is, here he is. How is’t with you, sir? How is’t with you, man?
    with her.
Why have those banished and forbidden legs
    desirous of admittance.
    Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
Who does beguile you? Who does do you wrong?
So he says here.
    I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
 Sennet. Enter Agamemnon, Nestor, Ulysses, Diomedes, Menelaus and
of the queen’s death (with the manner how she came to it bravely
  AUFIDIUS. Read it not, noble lords;
    Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
  PRINCE JOHN. I pawn'd thee none:
     On whom foul death hath made this slaughter;
Why, anything. But to the purpose. You were sent for; and there is a
    Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.             Exit
  LUCIO. I warrant your honour.
Pray, speake him, friend.
Five times redeem’d from death. I do not know
To pay the saddler for my mistress’ crupper:
    my court'- Hath this been proclaimed?
opportunities to cut him off: if your will want not, time and place
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
I prithee call’t. For this ungentle business,
Will play the tyrants to the very same,
And tell sad stories of the death of kings—
It fits when such a villain is a guest:
  ARMADO. I do adore thy sweet Grace's slipper.
TWO BRITISH CAPTAINS
    My father is gone wild into his grave,
  FIRST SOLDIER. 'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
How now, my love? Why is your cheek so pale?
Servilely master’d with a leathern rein!             392
  SPEED. 'Item: She is slow in words.'
    Confederate with the Queen and her two sons;
  MAYOR. But, my good lord, your Grace's words shall serve
For I will love thee ne’er the less, my girl.
    The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands.
A pound of that same merchant’s flesh is thine,
O, how we joy to see your wit restor’d!
    I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,
  ALL SERVANTS. Ay; would they serv'd us!
  MENENIUS. From Rome.
Who inward search’d, have livers white as milk,
him. For besides these beneficial news, it is the celebration of his
London. The Tower
'The patient dies while the physician sleeps;
    That you should seal this lawless bloody book
The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now, bull! Now, dog! ’Loo,
    But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
Come, come, you’re mocking; we will have no telling.
Had I expected thee.
Thy looks should nothing thence, but sweetness tell.
Hath sometime lov’d. I take thy hand! this hand,
will buy nine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is not worth the
    And utters it again when God doth please.
I’ll get me to a place more void, and there
    We shall employ thee in a worthier place.
That murder’d me. I would forget it fain,
    But now mischance hath trod my title down
  ANGELO. Say you so? Then I shall pose you quickly.
    And travelling along this coast, I bere am come by chance,
The father, all whose joy is nothing else
For thou art all and all things else are thine.
Well run, Thisbe.
In your dear highness’ love.
I will be squar’d by this. I do believe
    For revels, dances, masks, and merry hours,
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Than public means which public manners breeds.
Stay! the King hath thrown his warder down.
    feign'd him a worthy fellow.
I will be satisfied. Let me see the writing.
And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
    There ye shall meet about this weighty business-
      peasant!
 Enter Canidius.
  SURREY.  [Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
What mean you sir?
  YORK. At your pleasure, my good lord.
Dead to my husband?
  COSTARD. True, and I for a plantain. Thus came your argument in;
    Perceive I speak sincerely and high notes
What thou seest when thou dost wake,
Now, sir, thought is free. I pray you, bring your hand to th’ buttery
Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
Madam, my lord will go away tonight;
Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you.
    And ne'er was Agamemmon's brother wrong'd
kindly? He will line your apron with gold.
virgin got till virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
The reasons are more potent and heroical.
  SPEED. 'Item: She can knit.'
Calphurnia here, my wife, stays me at home.
I cry you mercy. Here’s Cassio hurt by villains.
      At a word, I am not.
As she is heavenly, and a blessed Goddes;
    love of Juno, let's go.
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
  CHARLES. Sound, sound alarum; we will rush on them.
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
Snout, the tinker! Starveling! God’s my life! Stol’n hence, and left me
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
    In such a just and charitable war.
    God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
compounded with my mother under the dragon’s tail, and my nativity was
Like envious floods o’er-run her lovely face,
That honour sav’d, may upon asking give?
Let us to France; like horse-leeches, my boys,
And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
  ISABELLA. O, give me pardon,
 Scene IV.  A camp in Wales.
    You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house.
His measure duly.
Meantime let this defend my loyalty:
    Bedford, if thou be slack I'll fight it out.
You’ll kiss me hard, and speak to me as if
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
    are simple men; we do not know what's brought to pass
memory, begin at this line, let me see, let me see:
  TAMORA. Now will I to that old Andronicus,
      In the state of honourable marriage:
    Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
For this design. What course I mean to hold
Pray you, content. What, Oswald, ho!
And with his head over his shoulder turn’d
  DOLL. Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.
Then would to God that I had never seen ’t!
    overtake seventeen years old. It were a goot motion if we
And sent me over by Berkeley to discover
’Twas told me you were rough, and coy, and sullen,
Condition I had gone barefoot to India.
    I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
More tuneable than lark to shepherd’s ear,
That you run mad, seeing that she is well.
    And if they fall they dash themselves to pieces.
    And wand'red hither to an obscure plot,
    Upbraid's with our distress. But sure, if you
He is too good and fair for death and me;
    The man I am.
      The Prince and Claudio promis’d by this hour
But what prevention?
Run after that same peevish messenger
For confirmation that I am much more
Do you hear, you minion? you’ll let us in, I hope?
    Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
But notwithstanding with my personal eye
myself, when it shall please my country to need my death.
  DUKE. 'Tis well borne up.
What trade, thou knave? Thou naughty knave, what trade?
They have dispatched with Pompey; he is gone.
  But true sweet beauty liv’d and died with him.
Why, what should be the fear?
  BASTARD. Our country manners give our betters way.
  SHALLOW. It is best, certain.
By Janus, I think no.
He rais’d a sigh so piteous and profound
      Who, Hero?
     O, my love, my love is young!
    The full cause of our coming.
    none.
    Use us and it.  [To WOLSEY]  My good lord, have great care
    Collected choicely, from each county some,
    And be, like them, to Percy troublesome.
    choice is rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
The cause is in my will; I will not come.
Are not you a coward? answer me to that:—and Poins there?
  SHALLOW. If it be confessed, it is not redressed; is not that
And being lighted, by the light he spies
    Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
    With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
  LEWIS. There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
There’s but a shirt and a half in all my company; and the half-shirt is
mind,” says the fiend “and run.” Well, my conscience, hanging about the
Be of comfort;
  HOST. To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse;
Will sourly leave her till he have prevailed?
  For sportive words, and uttering foolish things:
    The virtuous sweets,
  LUCIUS. What boots it thee to can thyself a sun?
 Enter Desdemona and Emilia.
Humbly I thank your grace.
Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.
  SIMPLE. Ay, forsooth; but he is as tall a man of his hands as
In brief the grounds and motives of her woe.
                                  [He gives his hand to WARWICK]
    The many to them 'longing, have put of
Who is the first that doth prefer himself?
  BOY. Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments;
    Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
    For you'll prove perjur'd if you make me stay.
    And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
Prince Troilus, I have lov’d you night and day
And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
  TIMON. Why dost thou call them knaves? Thou know'st them not.
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
Sith every action that hath gone before,
Gentlemen, why do you stir so early?
you can fret me, you cannot play upon me.
Lord Cerimon, my lord; this man,
 [_Sits down._]
    You should have won them dearer than you have.
I give thee warrant of thy place. Assure thee,
My life thou shalt command, but not my shame.
Thy mind to her is now as low as were
    arms again.
  MICHAEL. Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother are
    As dear be to thee as thy father was.
  CLARENCE. That he consents, if Warwick yield consent,
    My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
Use power with power, and slay me not by art,
    On special dignities, which vacant lie
And she an eater of her mother’s flesh,
  send the companion a better prince! I cannot rid my hands of him.
Thou stool for a witch!
A rider like myself, who ne’er wore rowel
If we offend, it is with our good will.
    worn in my cap than to wait at my heels. I was never mann'd with
    Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
Fear not, Cesario, take thy fortunes up.
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
And left thee there, where thou didst vent thy groans
I am not guilty of Lysander’s blood;
    That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage.
  PRINCE. I shall drive you then to confess the wilful abuse, and
    Full of high feeding, madly hath broke loose
    To gratulate thy plenteous bosom. Th' Ear,
Some part of a good name, and many a murther
  ANNE. What black magician conjures up this fiend
And seems to point her out where she sits weeping,
One day shall crown th’ alliance on’t, so please you,
There would be hands uplifted in my right;
  KING HENRY. Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
    O, may diseases only work upon't!
    The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
    door; who ask'd them once or twice what they had in their
denied him rivality; would not let him partake in the glory of the
    I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
  ANNE. You are a merry gamester,
    Who respects friend?
    Between our sovereign and the French King Charles,
Be friends, you English fools, be friends. We have French quarrels
As ever strooke at head.  Give me your hands;
O appetite, from judgement stand aloof!
  TIMON. Painting is welcome.
    From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
  COUNTESS. With all my heart, and think me honoured
She dreamt tonight she saw my statue,
    No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
    Hath hurt me more than had he kill'd me dead;
A little of all noble Quallities:
ARCITE.
Till sable Night, mother of Dread and Fear,
Their war-like fraughtage. Now on Dardan plains
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
 of Ephesus._]
  As smoke from Aetna, that in air consumes,
    Is not his Grace Protector to the King?
CLOWN, Servant to Othello
How happy some o’er other some can be!
  WOLSEY. Look'd he o' th' inside of the paper?
  DUKE. Son, I have overheard what hath pass'd between you and your
    of dishonour; in few, bestow'd her on her own lamentation, which
 [_Exit Casca._]
                If a hart do lack a hind,
      May a man do it?
It cannot be.
    and three or four loving lords have put themselves into voluntary
I’ll play the penitent to you. But mine honesty
    So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
Be so perfidious!—he whom next thyself
Who even but now did spurn me with his foot,
found: such a deal of wonder is broken out within this hour that
  CLIFFORD. That is my office, for my father's sake.
Come, Mistress Kate, I’ll bear you company.
A dateless bargain to engrossing death.
      your brother, I owe you all duty.
  VARRIUS, a gentleman, servant to the Duke
    I bear unto the banish'd Valentine;
    Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms,
The wrong I did myself: which was so much
  PORTER. You did nothing, sir.
Till gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder,
    To be your servant.
When other petty griefs have done their spite,
By whom, Aeneas?
    Till storms be past of civil enmity.
going.
    parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben
And that is false thou dost report to us.
  STANLEY did dream the boar did raze our helms,
    And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
An offer, uncle, that we will accept;
ISABEL, queen of France.
humours and careers.
By bright Diana, whom we honour, all
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
  But back retires, to rate the boar for murther.
I’ll have the current in this place damn’d up;
  PROTEUS. Valentine?
    That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
                 his WIFE and a multitude following
  BUCKINGHAM. Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
    Upon such large terms and so absolute
And made between ’s by vows. Thou hast found mine;
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
To pity too.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
Home without boots, and in foul weather too!
    To beg of Hob and Dick that do appear
    Was ne'er distributed.
    Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
           After the BEADLE hath hit him once, he leaps over
Remember March, the Ides of March remember:
But so it is, it is not. Was this taken
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
  APEMANTUS. This is in thee a nature but infected,
If you were men, as men you are in show,
    is but three skirts for yourself, in my simple conjectures;
    That my pent heart may have some scope to beat,
    Honour and virtue, and convers'd with such
  MOTH. Forbear till this company be past.
Who hateth thee that I do call my friend,
    God and good angels fight on Richmond's side;
  Shall curse my bones, and hold it for no sin
In so profound abysm I throw all care
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. But that slander, sir,
    then deliver up your pigeons; and then look for your reward. I'll
    Here's goodly work!
The only son of your great enemy.
And there the snake throws her enamell’d skin,
    And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
    apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble, fiery, and
    To say there is no vice but beggary.
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
Alas, Iago,
Those eyes that taught all other eyes to see?        952
Thou art a changling to him, a meere Gipsey,
O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed!
  THIRD BANDIT. Let us make the assay upon him; if he care not for't,
What wood is this before us?
Why are you grown so rude? What change is this,
And then they fed on him: So much for that,
Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil.
  CELIA. As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
    It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
      FRIAR.
  EVANS. It is petter that friends is the sword and end it;
Thou com’st to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.
  SOMERSET. Ay, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
    be loath to foil him, as I must, for my own honour, if he come
loving visitation was with me a young doctor of Rome. His name is
Could ’scape the hail of his all-hurting aim,
  ESCALUS. You have paid the heavens your function, and the prisoner
  VALENTINE. How esteem'st thou me? I account of her beauty.
    Ransomless here we set our prisoners free.
    And never stays to greet him. 'Ay,' quoth Jaques
    thus:
  MENENIUS. So do I too, if it be not too much. Brings a victory in
  PUBLIUS, son to Marcus Andronicus
    Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn.
  NORFOLK. We must both give and take, my loving lord.
And that you would have me to do?
wert best set thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine honour, if
          In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
  SHALLOW. Davy!
My poore Chinne too, for tis not Cizard iust
My dear master,
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it pleaseth their
      But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell,
    It can do me no damage'; adding further
    That is, to be the champion of our Church.
    And trouble not the peace.
I’ll set thee in a shower of gold and hail
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
Still close as sure.
  TALBOT. I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
  SECOND SENATOR. Get you gone.
But by degree stand in authentic place?
Alarum.  Fight at sea.  Ordnance goes off.  Enter a LIEUTENANT, a
’Tis just:
    Than I am made by my young lord and thee!
 priory._]
    paper-fac'd villain.
To fair Marina; but in no wise
This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
Hark! hark! what shout is this?
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies,
And call thy husband hither.
Pray, sir, your pardon.
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
    These that I bring unto their latest home,
Swear by her foot that she may tread out the oath.
“O thou didst kill me; kill me once again:
So they must,
Conspirant ’gainst this high illustrious prince;
  BUCKINGHAM. Nay, Sir Nicholas,
O lamentable day!
      so near the life of passion as she discovers it.
   How should I your true love know
    As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.    [A dance] Exeunt
    Many a battle have I won in France,
He is a friend. Cinna, where haste you so?
    Hardly conceive of me-let it be nois'd
too. If I cannot ward what I would not have hit, I can watch you for
                Exeunt GAOLERS, hearing out the body of MORTIMER
And as one shifts, another straight ensues:
    Untainted, unexamin'd, free, at liberty.
    Keep in your bosom; yet remain assur'd
DUKE OF BRITTANY.
    Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
O son, the night before thy wedding day
I am a right maid for my cowardice;
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke:
    As that proud dame, the Lord Protector's wife.
    To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' th' air,
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
    A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong
Scene II. Britain. Another room in Cymbeline’s palace.
But Antony’s hath triumphed on itself.
That I am not.
Which sometime show well, pencild.  Nature now
I’ll never care what wickedness I do,
    Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head
    appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to perform it.
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear,
The other must be held the worthier.
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. What stay had I but Edward? and he's
Not carry her aboard.  If she remain,
  TITUS. Do you hear, sir?
Proclaim’d in her a careless hand of pride;
a nunnery, go; and quickly too. Farewell.
They call him Ajax.
  FALSTAFF. Now, Master Brook, you come to know what
Helen, it is not so.
    Sits safe and still without him.
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul,
Is not this a fine Song?
SCENE II. The same. Before the Palace.
were a rose indeed, if she had but —
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
That Cleon’s wife, with envy rare,
  BROTHERS. We hope no otherwise from your Majesty.
It is just so high as it is, and moves with it own organs. It lives by
And added years to his short banishment,
      That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the
    Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman.
Killing that love which thou hast vow’d to cherish;
    Heaven is above all yet: there sits a Judge
    The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet.
  KING. [Advancing] Come, sir, you blush; as his, your case is such.
They dropp’d, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
Our son and daughter shall in Tyrus reign.
Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
Slain by his servant, going to put out
I am wrapp’d in dismal thinkings.
VII.
Come, let’s hear, Jack; what trick hast thou now?
Upon my daughter’s head! Tell me, mine own,
  WARWICK. An uproar, I dare warrant,
I here bestow a simple instrument,
    make you understand this in a manifested effect, I crave but four
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
That I some lady trifles have reserved,
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;
    O, 'tis a tender place! and I must leave her.              Exeunt
  he will trust his wife; he will not be jealous; I will rather trust a
    I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
  SAY. These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
And, her attendants absent, swallow’d fire.
Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
        By the dead and drowsy fire.
Good, good. The justice of it pleases. Very good.
  MRS. PAGE. Why, did you take her in green?
    And flaky darkness breaks within the east.
    'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine;
My name is called Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
    And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
  COSTARD. It may be so; but if he say it is so, he is, in telling
      come.                                         Exit PROVOST
Despair to gain doth traffic oft for gaining;
My meaning in’t, I protest, was very honest in the behalf of the maid;
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
    water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly.
sworn brothers to France. Let it be so, good Corporal Nym.
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
And watch your safety.
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain,
    These eyes that see thee now well coloured
Nearer a browne, than blacke, sterne, and yet noble,
And kings have been your fellows.
taste;—well, my conscience says “Launcelet, budge not.” “Budge,” says
    Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
And it is still itself.
    The peace between the French and us not values
My brother hath done well.
Whilst I thy babe chase thee afar behind,
Good madam, make me blessed in your care
Most true; the will!—let’s stay, and hear the will.
 Enter Cleopatra, Charmian, Iras and Mardian.
[_Sings._] _Shall I bid him go?_
O what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
  SAY. Ay, but I hope your Highness shall have his.
I play the torturer by small and small
               Enter the EARLS OF WARWICK and SALISBURY
We sucking on her natural bosom find.
That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,
The George alow came from the South,
Most barbarous, most degenerate, have you madded.
Wiped the black scruples, reconcil’d my thoughts
    For on thy fortune I repose myself.
Truly, an obedient lady.
    Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter.
therefore we must every one be a man of his own fancy; not to know what
      meet with you, I doubt it not.
      I wish him joy of her.
    And neither party loser.
     She was the daughter of a king:
To faithful service of your Majesty.
       Enter the DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, with his serving-men
    Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
    That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
  BUCKINGHAM. Yet had we not determin'd he should die
The forces you can raise, where we shall finde
    With everything that pretty is,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good
Being the agents, or base second means,
th’ court. The brains of my Cupid’s knock’d out, and I begin to love,
And by their verdict is determined
      This is an accident of hourly proof,
    More truly now may this be verified;
Or ivory in an alabaster band,
What terror 'tis! but she, in worser taking,
  CORIOLANUS. I'll give my reasons,
some tonight.
    The treacherous manner of his mournful death,
Of great revenue, and she hath no child.
leave of my lady and mistress.
    sack be the issue. Come, lay their swords to pawn. Follow
    That no man hath recourse to her by night.
    So fare my limbs with long imprisonment;
LORD.
  LEWIS. Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
The favours of these men. Were they not mine?
Call on him for’t. But to confound such time
As levels with her breeding.
    mutton; and she, a lac'd mutton, gave me, a lost mutton, nothing
there is more sense in that than in reputation. Reputation is an idle
Great grief grieves most at that would do it good;
    And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
As when his virtues shining upon others
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more,
O, matter and impertinency mix’d!
    And none your foes but such as shall pretend
 [_Exeunt all but Brutus._]
